Well, okay, today we are gonna come to the last message in this series that I've titled Long Journey Home.
We've been on this since the beginning of September.
And if you haven't been with us prior to this, hey, you made it into the last one.
So congratulations.
What we've been doing is we've been following the journey of Israel from their time of slavery in Egypt through their exodus, through the wilderness, and to the Promised Land.
And as we've been traveling on that journey,
We've also been trying to look at the connections between the Old Testament story of Israel and the New Testament story of Jesus.
And as I've said before, that's not because we're trying to make things up or see connections where there aren't connections, it's because both Jesus as well as other writers in the New Testament made those connections.
They saw the connections between that ancient story and the story of Jesus.
And following out of those connections, we've then been also asking how to apply those lessons in our own lives.
What can we learn for our own journey as followers of Jesus?
And this morning, we are finally coming to the final message of this series.
And that is Israel in the Promised Land.
And as the GPS in my truck is fond of saying, at the end of a long trip, He've arrived at your destination.
It's been a long journey, but we've arrived.
Now, many of you know that I enjoy working with wood.
And whenever I start a project, I will find myself thinking through all the various steps it's gonna take to go from just the rough wood through to that finished project.
And I especially give attention to the steps that I anticipate are going to be difficult, where there may be some real challenges to it.
I actually built a little jord box for my daughter-in-law,
And I thought I had thought through all the steps.
And as I was doing some of the finished work on it, I was working on the router.
And what I hadn't thought about was what would happen if my bit was a tiny bit dull, caught the side of the box, and just ripped the side out of it.
So sometimes there are things you don't anticipate that come along, even you think you've thought through all the steps.
But nevertheless, I try to think through what the difficult parts of the journey might be.
And that was certainly true as we started looking at this story of Israel.
and realizing there were some very challenging parts of that story, which I wasn't really too worried about because whenever I saw a tough one coming up, I just asked Lance to speak on that Sunday.
Now, one of the chapters that I was not worried about that didn't seem difficult at all was talking about this aspect of the promised land, the final step in the journey.
I mean, this seemed like a pretty easy thing to talk about.
Israel has gone through all the challenges of the journey.
They finally have crossed over the Jordan River and poof their GPS squats.
He's arrived at your destination.
How wrong I was.
I kid you not.
I have five different versions of this sermon.
Actually, I don't have five versions because I kept trashing them one after another.
I'm not even sure I like this one, but Christmas is coming and so we've just got to do it, right?
So what does it mean to live in the promised land?
If starting the journey, escaping from Egypt could be equated to experiencing new birth in Jesus, then what in our experience would equate with finishing the journey, crossing the Jordan River into the promised land?
And maybe you are like me, my knee-jerk reaction is to say, oh, well, that's heaven.
I followed Jesus through the wilderness of life.
Finally, I arrived at death's door, the Jordan River, and on the other side is the promised land.
Peace and joy forevermore.
I'm pretty sure that's what William Stent was thinking back in 1787 when he penned the words to the old hymn on Jordan's Stormy Banks I Stand.
In case you don't know that hymn, here's what he wrote.
On Jordan's Stormy Banks I Stand and cast a wishful eye to Canaan's fair and happy land.
where my possessions lie.
There, generous fruits that never fail on trees immortal grow.
There rocks and hills and brooks and veils with milk and honey flow.
Oh, the transporting rapture scene that rises to my sight.
Sweet fields are raid and living green and rivers of delight.
When shall I reach that happy place I'll be forever blessed, where I shall see my father's face and in his bosom rest.
I'm bound for the promised land.
I am bound for the promised land.
Oh, who will come and go with me?
I'm bound for the promised land.
There's only one problem with that interpretation.
I don't think it's right.
Did you know that when Israel started taking possession of their promised land, some of it was on the near side of the Jordan River.
It wasn't all
over there.
It wasn't all after the crossing.
And if you want to equate the promised land to heaven, what do you do with the fact that the battle of Jericho happened after they crossed the river?
I mean, their biggest, most intimidating battle they ran into was after they crossed the river.
To be sure, the land was beautiful.
God had promised them a land that was flowing with milk and honey, and eventually there was shalom.
There was peace in the land.
Last week, we talked about the ultimate dude, Caleb.
Remember that?
And you may recall that when the end of the Promised Land, Caleb was in his 80s.
And the amazing thing about Caleb is here's a man in his 80s that goes to Joshua and says, you know what?
I can fight as well today as I could when I was half this age, when I was in my 40s.
And specifically, he asked to be given the portion of the land
where the most entrenched, the most difficult enemies occupied.
He says, I'm ready for the fight.
And for Caleb, his whole orientation, as he had been on that 40-year trek in the wilderness, as he kept thinking about the Promised Land, was what he kept thinking about was that there was going to be significant conflict involved when he got there.
But Caleb Olson, who wasn't just about conflict,
because God had given them good promises of a good home.
And here's how Joshua records the aftermath of Caleb finally finishing the conquest of that difficult hill country in the promised land.
Then Joshua blessed him, Caleb, and he gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jafuna for an inheritance, and the land had rest from war.
Now that,
Sounds like heaven.
So whatever lessons we wanna draw, whatever images we want to pull from the Promised Land, I don't think we can limit it to our concept of heaven.
We can't just relegate it to a wistful image that is only in the future.
For Israel, stepping into the Promised Land meant facing conflict.
In fact, as you may recall, it was actually the fear of conflict
that had kept their forefathers out of the Promised Land.
Remember, they get to Kedish Barnia, the spies go check it out, they say, man, that looks like big, bad enemies in there, we're gonna get creamed, and people all say, we're not crossing.
And that begins that whole 40-year trek where God says, okay, none of this generation except for Joshua and Caleb are gonna go into the Promised Land.
It was the fear of conflict that had kept them out of the Promised Land.
Now, if you're gonna equate the Promised Land to heaven, I'm not sure that anyone
has ever suggested that it was the fear of heaven that kept them from wanting to die.
So I don't think you can make that equation.
The book of Hebrews suggests that rather than seeing the promised land as the end of the story, we should see it as an ellipsis in a bigger story.
You know what an ellipsis is, right?
It's that little series of three dots that tells you there is more to come.
I actually have a tiny bit of PSD.
related to ellipses.
When I was in seminary, one of my professors, Dr. Ross Cup, a tremendous scholar.
I mean, to read a Jim Ross Cup commentary is phenomenal.
And the guy was an expert in ancient languages, a bit of a nerd.
He told us once that for vacation, he laid his wife's drive because he was busy translating euguritic manuscripts.
That's pretty nerdy.
He also was a real stickler for doing things with excellence.
And I had him for a class on the books of Daniel and Revelation, which that's a tough enough top to begin with, let alone taking it from a guy that likes to translate eugritic manuscripts.
Well, we had a final term paper we had to write.
And he let us know that not only did we need to do excellently in our research in the paper, but he wanted to see excellence in the paper itself.
In fact, for Dr. Roskop, four typos in your paper
could drop you a letter grade.
OK, that is terrifying.
And we're talking about the days when still most things are being done on typewriters.
So trying to get it right.
Now, I actually had a word processor.
It was kind of a novelty.
A lot of people didn't see news yet.
Those of you that know computers stuff will appreciate this.
I had the Commodore SX-64.
That was the portable 64.
64 K of RAM, amazing computer, only weighed 25 pounds.
But because of Dr. Roskup, I want to be sure I got it right.
Now, according to Dr. Roskup, an ellipsis was not dot dot dot.
An ellipsis is dot space, dot space, dot space.
So you can only imagine how hard I worked on making sure I got this paper right.
Burnett and I went over that paper over and over.
Finally, they came that I handed in the paper.
and I got an A.
In fact, I got 100%.
In fact, Dr. Roskop said he was putting my paper in the library as an example to other students.
I was so proud.
I'm 25 years old and I send my paper home to my mother so she can see my homework.
I mean, how bad is that?
A couple weeks later, Mom sent a copy back to me and she circled a couple typos she found in it.
Well, the writer of Hebrew spends quite a bit of time developing some thoughts around this idea of Israel entering the promised land, this land of rest.
And the book of Hebrew is this New Testament book.
It's a pretty complex passage, but I want to point out just one verse that gets at this ellipsis idea.
It comes from Hebrews, chapter four, verse eight.
If Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on.
Right, if Hebrews says, yeah, they had rest, but dot space, dot space, dot space, there was more to come.
Remember, I told you I was having a hard time deciding where to go with this sermon.
And in the middle of my angst, and I don't normally go through severe sermon block, but in this particular one, I was just stuck.
In the middle of it,
One of our sons, David called, and that was great because David is a counselor, and I was approaching the point of needing help, my mental health.
And he asked what I was doing, and I just started sobbing, now I'm just kidding, but it wasn't that bad, but I did tell him I was having a hard time deciding how to approach this.
And as good counselors tend to do, he asked me a good question.
He said, do you think it's because it's the last sermon in the series, and you feel pressure,
to try to wrap it up well, but the story doesn't actually wrap up.
There's still a big part of the story that's in the future.
Well, God bless my son, he was right.
That verse about the land having rest from war, right, where Joshua gives, killed his portion, says the land had rest from war.
You realize that's only halfway through the book of Joshua.
We haven't yet gotten to the book of Judges,
First and second Samuel, first and second kings, first and second chronicles.
You've still got all the prophets, the major and minor prophets.
And if you follow the history of those stories, you'll realize that that rest from war, that Israel enjoyed in the Promised Land was only an interlude.
It was not a final chapter.
There are some bright points in the story.
There's also a lot of darkness.
There's a lot of conflict.
There's a lot of faithlessness.
There's some downright evil.
And tragically, eventually you find the people back in bondage, taken away into exile, actually losing the land they had been promised.
Dot space, dot space, dot space.
And yet despite the downward trajectory of that bigger story, it's not without hope.
You realize that today is actually the first Sunday of Advent.
We've got the Advent wreath up here.
And the first candle that we light in the Advent wreath is called the hope candle.
Or sometimes it's called the prophecy candle.
And the reason it's called that is because it acknowledges that the coming of Jesus
had been prophesied at various times in various ways.
And often, at times, in places where things seem dark and hopeless.
And yet, the prophets kept saying God was going to provide.
There was hope.
Let me just take you to one passage.
A famous one comes from Micah, chapter five.
We looked at it a bit this summer as we were looking at the minor prophets.
Micah, chapter five, verses one through five.
Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops.
See just laid against us with a rod they strike, the judge of Israel on the cheek.
Here's God's people, six to 700 years after Joshua, still talking about conflict.
But you, O Bethelhem, afraid them, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me, one who is to be ruler in Israel,
whose coming forth is from of old from ancient of days, which is a fascinating paradoxical kind of promise, isn't it?
He says a great king is going to come from a tiny out of the way place where you'd least expect him.
And he says this newborn king will simultaneously be one who is ancient of days.
He just showed up.
and he's always been here.
Therefore, he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth.
Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel."
In other words, until he comes, conflict is going to continue.
And yet when he does, when that promised one comes, he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord
In the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace."
A great shepherd.
A great shepherd who brings peace.
A prophetic word spoken in a dark time to give people hope.
The promise that the day would come when Messiah would come.
To read the story of Jesus is to find all through it the clues that he is that promised one.
What about where he was born, right?
Luke 2.
Joseph also went up to the city of David which is called Bethlehem.
While they were there the time came from Mary to give birth and she gave birth to her first born center, wrapped him in swaddling claws and laid him in a manger because there was no place for them
in the end.
Where will this great king be born in Bethlehem, like Micah said?
Or what about this newly arrived and yet ancient ruler?
One of the statements Jesus made about himself left people scratching their heads.
This from John 8.
Jesus said to them, truly, truly, I say to you before Abraham was, I am.
And of course,
that I am is a key phrase, right?
That is the name that God gave himself, Yahweh, the I am.
The Pharisees, when they heard this, they were furious at Jesus, they saw him committing heresy.
Here's this young upstart rabbi, and he's saying to us that he was before Abraham, and not just that he was before Abraham, he actually is daring to equate himself with God.
A newly arrived and yet ancient ruler.
And how did Jesus describe his ministry?
He said, I am the good shepherd.
The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
And what about that promise of peace?
Jesus said, peace, I leave with you.
My peace, I give to you.
Not as the world gives, do I give to you.
See, the world's idea of peace all revolves around.
There has to be no conflict.
And Jesus, as he was speaking his words to his disciples, he knew that they were all going to face conflict.
And yet he said, even in conflict, I am giving you peace.
Peace that no one can take away from you even when things are hard.
If you want to overlay the journey of Israel onto the Christian journey,
I think rather than going from crossing over the Red Sea all the way up to the Jordan River and seeing it as continuing on, you almost have to lift the Jordan River portion and take it back and overlay it with the Red Sea.
Because don't forget it's a new generation that was going into the promised land.
It was their forefathers who had had that experience of crossing through the Red Sea, of being brought out of slavery, God providing what only God could do to rescue them and bring them out.
their children had spent their lives living in the wilderness.
And now suddenly they're preparing to go into the Promised Land and they come up against the Jordan River.
In both instances the way across was a miracle of God's provision.
In the case of the Red Sea it was Moses who lifted his staff and the waters parted.
At the Jordan River God told Joshua to send the priests with the Ark of the Covenant into the river and as they did so their waters would park.
Now there was no Ark of the Covenant yet
when Moses led the people out of Egypt.
That was constructed later.
But in both cases, the message was that God was committed to His promises.
He was the one who was going to give them entry into the promised land.
He was the one who was going to provide the way of escape.
And that He was the one who had already gone ahead and made a way for them.
Isn't that what Jesus has done for us?
He's gone before us.
Prior to those crossings,
The people were stuck.
For the first generation, it was literal slavery.
The Egyptians were their masters.
For the second generation, it was an existence of futility.
Their lives were going nowhere.
They had been stuck in the wilderness, wandering and homeless.
If you think of our own lives, I go, you know, maybe that describes the experience of someone who's here this morning.
Maybe there's something that leaves you feeling like a slave.
Maybe it's been a poisonous relationship that you feel stuck in, it's controlling you, it's poisoning you.
You know it's crippling and yet you feel powerless to break free.
Or maybe it's a substance.
It could be alcohol, it could be weed, it could be something stronger than that.
Something that started out as a crutch
and yet it's become a master.
Maybe it's a master you've done a really great job of hiding from other people, so nobody else knows, or at least you don't think they know, but you know.
You know that there's a master controlling your life.
Maybe it's an inner sense of inadequacy that relentlessly drives you forward, inadequacy can be a terrible slave master.
The sense that I always have to do more, prove more, be more, and that nothing I ever do will be enough.
Maybe right alongside that, it's the master of shame.
It's things that you've done in your past that have come to define you.
Maybe relate to Lady Macbeth.
Remember Lady Macbeth and Shakespeare's play?
She at one point is sleepwalking in a dream state.
And in her waking life, she had plotted some murders.
And the guilt of what she has done continues to haunt her.
And now in this dream state, she looks and she sees blood on her hands.
And she begins frantically trying to scrub the blood off.
And she can't make the blood go away.
And frantically, she shouts out, out, out, damn spot.
Who will make this go away?
Why can't I escape
the things of my past.
And sometimes some of us have those spots, those things that stain our conscience that we can't get rid of.
And they're the spots that we wonder, could God ever forgive someone like me who has done something like that?
Maybe you don't feel enslaved to anything, but maybe wandering in the wilderness rings a bell.
You're on the move, but you're not sure where to or why.
What is the purpose of it all?
Is there any purpose?
Is there a reason for you to live?
Is the purpose you're living for really the purpose that you were made for or is it just a self-imposed illusion?
Well, here's the message of the gospel.
There is a God.
who loves you.
A God who wants you to be free.
A God who knows exactly what your purpose is because he is your creator.
And he also knows all about the things that stand between you and him.
You can call him the Red Sea.
You can call them the Jordan.
You can call them the moral divide or sin or guilt or fallenness or whatever you want.
But at the bottom,
You recognize things in your life that are more than you can handle.
And that's why Jesus came.
The first candle of Advent is the candle of hope.
That God has not been willing to leave us without hope.
That through Jesus, He has made a way.
He offers hope.
He offers peace.
And the way across is the same as it was for the Israelites.
It's the step of faith.
It's to look at the way that God has provided.
When he said to the Israelites in Egypt, go ahead, follow Moses across that sea.
When he said to Joshua, go ahead, follow the priests across that river.
There's a step of faith that says, I don't fully understand all of this, but I believe this is the way out and to take the step of faith to follow.
Now I'm not gonna lie, entering the Promised Land doesn't mean
you won't have any more conflicts.
In fact, you may encounter more conflicts than you had before, but there will be better conflicts.
There will be people who won't understand, may even oppose the journey you're on with Jesus.
As you travel, you're going to encounter old habits, you're going to encounter temptations, things that need to be dealt with.
Not only that, the Bible tells us there's a spiritual enemy who opposes all that is holy and will try to trip us up.
And I'm guessing that most of us here are on that side of the Jordan.
We have taken the step of faith to follow Jesus.
And now we're in the fight.
It was near the end of World War II that Allied forces were closing in on the final stages of the Pacific conflict.
And for all intents, the war was won.
Japan was on the ropes, and it was just a matter of time really until final victory was declared.
But the fight was still ongoing, and it was fierce.
Okinawa was one of the bloodiest battles, though it didn't seem so at first.
When Marines landed on the beaches of Okinawa, they met almost no resistance.
In fact, in the first 24 hours, they covered a distance that they had anticipated was going to require days of fighting.
And they began to think that the enemy was on the run, but they were wrong.
The enemy was simply hiding underground and had camouflage and trench positions behind the ridges.
And so many positions didn't look difficult at all.
Like Sugarloaf Hill.
Sugarloaf was one of three small hills.
There was half moon, horseshoe, and sugarloaf.
And sugarloaf was only 230 feet above sea level.
And actually, when you took in this surrounding terrain, it was only 50 feet higher than the terrain around it.
How hard could it be?
Well, sugarloaf, let me just read this to you.
Sugarloaf was honeycomb with any positions.
Any one of the three hills could be defended by any of the others.
Interlocking fields of fire from each hill protected the slopes and approaches of the others.
Preregistered artillery spots have been gridded all over Sugar Loaf's terrain, allowing any step by Marines to come under withering artillery fire.
Machine gun positions that the Marines had never seen before lined half moon and horseshoe.
While the real beast, Sugar Loaf, was pockmarked with concrete, reverse slope positions
that would have to be eliminated one by one by hand.
Well, you know the history.
The Marines did eventually take Sugarloaf Hill, but it wasn't easy.
And I would submit to you, there are battles in the Christian life that are like that as well.
There are beautiful stories of people who come to Jesus and experience instant freedom from habits that they thought they would never conquer.
And those are beautiful stories.
They are testaments to God's power in a person's life.
But it's also true that God does not part every rushing stream or route every enemy without our participation.
In fact, the apostle Paul told Christians that they needed to arm themselves, not with literal clubs and swords and guns, but he talked about spiritual armor.
You don't need armor if you're not going to be in a fight.
Here's what he said, Ephesians 6, he said, be strong in the Lord and the strength of his might put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil.
He says, put on every piece of God's armor so he'd be able to resist the enemy in the time of evil.
Then after the battle, you'll still be standing firm.
Stand your ground, putting on the belt of truth and the body armor of God's righteousness, for shoes put on the peace,
that comes from the good news so that you will be fully prepared.
In addition to all of these, hold up the shield of faith to stop the fiery arrows of the devil.
Put on salvation as your helmet and take the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.
Pray in the Spirit at all times, and on every occasion, stay alert, be persistent in your prayers for all believers everywhere.
Those pieces of armor, they really just speak to fully embracing and knowing the truth of what has been done for us in Jesus and then living out of that truth.
He starts by talking about the belt of truth, the enemies attack against Christians so often revolves around accusation and shame.
And the belt of truth that holds us together is that in Christ, we are loved and accepted and secure.
And when the enemy brings up something from your past and says, God couldn't really love someone like you that's done something like that, the belt of truth says, that is not true.
Jesus died for me.
The breastplate of righteousness, the defense against the charge of shame or the failures of our past and present is not our righteousness, but God's.
I don't have to prove anything to the accusations, like I'm not really that kind of person, because guess what?
I'm that kind of person, left to myself,
I do those kinds of things.
And yet, it doesn't matter what the reminders are that Satan whispers to our heart about the stains of our sin if I know that God has put his righteous jacket on me.
Paul says, put that on, remind yourself that it is Christ's righteousness, not yours.
He talks about the shoes of peace.
When we're called to move the shoes we wear or the shoes of Christ's peace, we walk
insecurity of our peace with God and we speak the gospel of peace to others in both word and deed.
The shield of faith, when doubts and anxieties and fears come against us, the shield of faith means that we choose to rest our hearts in the absolute assurance that God's character toward us is love and his promises toward us are true.
And then he talks about the Sword of the Spirit, the Word of God.
We are people who know God's Word and know it in a way that it changes our lives.
And this is important.
There are a lot of people that see themselves as people of the Word simply because they have possession of a lot of biblical facts.
They've done a lot of studies.
They can outline a very detailed doctoral statement for you.
And they go, well, that's me knowing how to wield the sword of the spirit, the word of God.
And I would just say, no, because when this word is really doing its job, it says that it pierces to the very heart.
I had a couple of years ago, another place, another time, came to you for counseling.
And as I sat down, the wife told me right up front that she was really a woman of the word.
And then she knew the word and she wanted me.
The reason they'd come in was she wanted me to rebuke her husband
because he was contemplating leaving her.
And because she was a woman of the word, she knew that he was in the wrong.
Now, the reason they had come in was what had happened during a previous fight.
Because it turns out she had a little anger problem.
And what happened in the fight was that she had been literally chasing her husband around the kitchen with a butcher knife.
This woman of the word.
And I wanted to say, well, maybe we should start by applying the word a little closer to home than just at your husband.
I like how Eugene Peterson paraphrased this in the message.
Here's what he says.
Be prepared.
You're up against far more than you can handle on your own.
Take all the help you can get.
Every weapon God has issued so that when it's all over, but the shouting, you'll still be on your feet.
Truth, righteousness, peace, faith, and salvation are more than words.
Learn how to apply them.
You'll need them throughout your life.
God's Word is an indispensable weapon.
In the same way, prayer is essential in this ongoing warfare.
Pray hard and long.
Pray for your brothers and sisters.
Keep your eyes open.
Keep each other's spirits up so that no one falls behind or drops out.
And I love how he talks about prayer there because that was one more thing there in the arsenal, right?
He says, pray for all the saints.
The prayer of fellow believers.
In other words, we fight best when we fight together.
There's an essay titled, Tip of the Iceberg, Okinawa, 1945.
And in the essay, this historian, Christopher Kullikowski, noted that the key to victory in Okinawa was the close coordination and the cooperation of ground air and naval forces.
And I think that's a good word for us.
We've been given each other.
We've not been called to fight the fight alone.
So why make a big deal about being in a life group, building those relationships, having accountability partners, we need each other.
This is how we live in the Promised Land.
During these days, when we still experience dot space, dot space, dot space,
Let me just briefly take us back to the end of Caleb's story and that beautiful little phrase, and the land had rest from war.
Throughout this series, we've looked at a number of events in Israel's long journey.
And we've considered how beyond their own historical context, they were also foreshadowings.
Images that pointed to something greater.
The peace achieved in the promised land in Caleb's time was only temporary.
But it absolutely foreshadowed something greater, a greater peace, a peace that will last.
Here's where the Bible ends up, Revelation chapter 21.
Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth.
For the first heaven and the first earth are passed away and the sea was no more.
And I saw the holy city new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man.
He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God.
He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more.
Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, anymore, for the former things have passed away.
And he who was seated on the throne said,
Behold, I am making all things new."
Also, we said, write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.
And he said to me, it is done.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, to the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment, the one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be
My son.
One day the journey will be complete.
The promised land will be new again.
No more dot space, dot space, dot space.
We will be home.
Period.
Full stop.
You've arrived at your destination.
Hey, I'm going to invite the ushers to come forward because we're going to have communion this morning and they'll be serving you.
And while they're doing that, I just wanna read you something that came across written by Paul Tripp.
Just a couple of weeks ago, Paul Tripp is a well-known Bible teacher, and it was on his 75th birthday that he penned these words.
Everyone builds their life on a story.
A grand narrative that interprets and explains history, identity, future, family, purpose, God, meaning, morality, work, desire, need, hope,
and every other thing the mind can conceive.
Everyone's life is shaped by story.
The story our parents told us, the story we tell ourselves, the story of our culture, the story we learn from philosophers, poets, preachers, writers, directors, theologians, politicians, bosses, protesters, painters, grandmothers.
Some stories are incomplete.
Some stories are a lie.
Some stories are a fantasy.
Some stories are true.
Some stories give wisdom.
Some stories attract fools.
Stories have the power to captivate and control us, deceive and destroy us, enthrall and motivate us, rescue and restore us, define and identify us, humble and humanize us.
guide and direct us, confront and warn us, frighten and paralyze us, enlighten and instruct us, help or harm us.
You have a grand, influential story.
You tell it to yourself again and again in search of answers.
In moments of celebration, in the darkness of grief, when you're lost and lonely, when life is hard, in failure's darkness, in a quest for hope, to reconcile the past, to understand the future,
when decisions loom when lost in the middle.
We're all very good storytellers, but there is one story that stands above every other story that has been written or told.
This is the one complete story spanning from before origins to beyond destiny.
It is the old old story told by saints and sinners, kings and scoundrels,
giving life to the weak and strong, rich and poor, young and old.
To those celebrating and those grieving, sinners and slaves, religious and agnostics, hopeful ones, and those who've given up hope.
It is the only story that has the power to rescue and redeem, to save and sanctify, to crush death and give life, to renew and restore, to make the blind see, to put humility where pride once lived,
to replace idolatry with worship, to reconcile the past and secure the future, to replace selfishness with gratitude, to join sinners with God.
Slavery in Egypt, plagues liberate.
Passover mercy, law revealed, waters part, clouds and fire guide, man of feeds, tabernacle presence, priests and sacrifices, walls crumble,
giants defeated.
Out of the remnant of his people comes his son to sit on the throne of David forever.
Mary conceives, angels announce, shepherds worship, Messiah, son of God, son of man, bread of life, Emmanuel, final prophet, great high priest, king of kings, righteous one, sacrificial lamb,
He who knew no sin bears the sin in his own.
Thorns of the curse pressed down on his head bears sins penalty.
Separator from the father dies in sinner's place.
Darkness falls.
Veil torn.
Graves open.
It is finished.
Human kings cannot stop him.
Death's tomb cannot hold him.
Sins curse cannot defeat him.
The first fruit of life eternal.
New body on display appears to many ascends to royal throne, sends the spirit, establishes his church unleashes rescuing, forgiving, justifying, reconciling, indwelling, transforming, empowering, providing, guiding, protecting, keeping grace.
Opens blind eyes and liven's dead souls recaptures wondering hearts
illumines darken minds, life now and forever.
Good gifts to the church.
Commissions ambassadors marches his own toward the final kingdom.
New heavens, new earth, peace and righteousness forever, final feast, songs of the redeemed, echo forever.
Lamb on the throne.
Every tongue and nation bow in adoration, awe, submission, celebration, gratitude,
worship, praise, redemption accomplished, redemption complete, eternal Sabbath of the redeemed.
The only story to make sense out of every human story, the most shockingly honest and gloriously hopeful story that has ever been told written by the author of authors who makes himself known so that in knowing him, we might have life right here,
right now and forever.
Jesus said, Takey, this is my body.
He took the cup and he gave thanks.
He said, drink of it all of you for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.
I tell you, I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my father's kingdom.
We're not the only ones who are looking forward to that day when all things are made new.
Jesus said that he was looking forward to it as well.
The day will come when God's great salvation story is complete.
All creation, what last, have rest from war.
Jesus said, take these elements as a constant reminder of what I have done for you.
And in that there's the promise of what is yet to come.
Let me pray and we'll take the bread and the cup together.
Lord Jesus, thank you so much that our story is subsumed into yours.
Your story is far greater than ours, far better than ours.
Thank you for changing the stories and the trajectories of our life.
We take now this morning the bread and recognition of your body broken for us.
We take the cup
reminder that in you, there is a new promise, a new covenant, new life in you.
We give you deep thanks for that.
We pray that and we take these elements to your praise and glory.
Amen.
As you're ready, go ahead and take the bread and then take the cup.
Father again, we just give you thanks.
We give you thanks that we are living in your story that is so much greater than our own.
Help us, I pray, to fight, to fight that you given to each one of us.
And we look forward to the day that we celebrate the end of all conflict with you when your kingdom comes.